---
layout: project
lab: OK Lab Karlsruhe #needed for Aggregation on Lab-Page
imgname: karlsruhe/ODDlogo-ka.svg
title: Open Data Day on March 7, 2020
showcase: 1
status: Laufend


links:
  - name: International Open Data Day
    url: https://opendataday.org
  - name: Open Data Day at ZKM
    url: https://zkm.de/de/veranstaltung/2020/03/open-data-day

---

The *Open Data Day* is an annual event to highlight the importance of open data internationally. On this day local groups organize self-organized events. Last year (2019) there were more than 400 events.

This year these events around open data will take place worldwide on March 7 - also in Karlsruhe. Open data and the tools to evaluate it create transparency and enable democratic participation through informed social decision-making. To support exactly this, the Open Knowledge Lab Karlsruhe invites interested people to get to know and exchange ideas for the sixth time.

Regardless of age and technical skills - everyone can take part in the *Open Data Day* - whether newcomer or data expert.

We start the *Open Data Day* at 1:00 p.m. in the **media lounge of the [ZKM](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/224089410)** with an introduction to the world of open data using the example of current projects from Karlsruhe and other labs. We have a number of contributions to open data from the point of view of administration and journalistic work. Smaller workshops provide first insights into data usage and generation, e.g. B. with self-made sensors. Finally we will jointly find ideas for new data stories, visualizations or applications and plan the application for the UNESCO City of Media Arts funding program.

In addition to working with the open data that the City of Karlsruhe makes available in its transparency portal, this year the focus will be on data that is important for the new climate protection concept of the city. In between you can ask, discuss and try out - if you bring a notebook with you, you can take the results of the day home with you.

## Agenda
  * 13:00 Introduction
    * What is open data and what does the OK Lab do ...
  * 13:30 Climate data and climate concept
    * What does the city do, what do citizens do, what do we all do.
  * 14:00 Data from / with environmental sensors
    * Environmental data and how we can measure it ourselves.
  * 14:45 Common Voice Project
    * A project with the help of which voice recognition should be open and accessible to everyone.
  * 15:15 Data stories
    * Make a good story with open weather data.
  * 15:45 How do you plant 3000 trees?
    * Data sources and tools for a (speculative) administration project
  * 16:30 Transparency Portal KA 2.0
    * The communal IT dept. presents the new *Transparency Portal*. Topics are data, use cases, opportunities and wishes.
  * 17:30 Touching Data - Data + Art
    * Brainstorming towards an application to the "UNESCO project" funding program.
    * [Application sketch](/data/antrag_en.pdf)
  * 18:00 end

There will be ample time for discussion.
Depending on the interests, in-depth "mini-workshops" are possible in parallel for individual topics.

