---
layout: project
lab: OK Lab Karlsruhe #needed for Aggregation on Lab-Page
imgname: karlsruhe/piazza.png
title: Piazza Conference - Budget planning made easy
showcase: 1
status: Online event on 2.Dez.2021

collaborators:
  - name: Josef Attmann
  - name: Michael Riedmüller
  - name: Andreas Kugel

links:
  - name: Event website (German only)
    url: https://piazza-konferenz.de/kommunale-haushaltsplaene-fuer-viele-zugaenglich-machen/

---

Municipal administration is characterized by, amongst other features, municipal budget planning. Many municipalities publish their budgets on the Internet as open data - but usually only as pdf files. Our prototype shows how budget plans can be flexibly evaluated towards a specific question without having to learn programming first. The availability of budget data in a form that can be analyzed by "normal citizens" would be an impulse for the Open Data scene. With the "self-service approach" and the integration of budgetary data in participation projects, existing participation formats could be further developed. As a reflection of the fulfillment of municipal tasks, budgets contain not only monetary figures but also key indicators of the "everyday world" in the municipality.

In dealing with the prototype, representatives of various interest groups, employees of municipal administrations, local councillors, (data) journalists, participants in initiative groups / associations, etc. can sound out what potential this possibility offers for their own work and for cooperation between these groups. We are looking for cooperation with other cities and would support the transfer.

(Translated in parts by DEEPL.COM)
